Allow declaration of dependencies on Gradle plugins using Plugin ID or Version Catalog (#23685)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/01-core-dependency-management/declaring_dependencies.adoc

This allows you, for example, to fix an issue in a library you use in an application by using, and building, a locally patched version instead of the published binary version.
The details of this are described in the section on <<composite_builds.adoc#defining_composite_builds,composite builds>>.

[[sec:gradle-plugin-dependencies]]
==== Gradle plugin dependencies

> Plugins are used to add new tasks, domain objects and conventions to a project as well as to extend core objects and objects from other plugins.

Reviewer: 💄 
```suggestion
<<plugins.adoc#plugins, Gradle plugins>> play a crucial role in enhancing the functionality of a project by introducing new tasks, domain objects, and conventions, as well as augmenting core objects and objects from other plugins.
```

A dependency on a plugin can be declared using the id and (optionally) the version of the plugin.

====
include::sample[dir="snippets/plugins/declaringDependencies/kotlin", files="build.gradle.kts[tags=declaring_dependencies_block]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/plugins/declaringDependencies/groovy", files="build.gradle[tags=declaring_dependencies_block]"]
====
<1> Declaring plugin dependencies in the main dependency block.
<2> Declaring plugin dependencies in the test-suites block.

> For more information see the API documentation for <<plugins.adoc#plugins, plugins>>.

Reviewer 2: I would remove this paragraph in favor of my suggestion above the snippet.
